# Text analysis of case law judgements of sexual offences before and after the MeToo movement
Exploratory analysis of language differences in England and Wales’ case law judgements of sexual offences, before and after the #MeToo movement. 

Are there discernible differences in language within legal judgments of sexual, gender-related offence case law, before and after the #MeToo movement?

Sexual offences, most often perpetrated by men against women (World Health Organisation [WHO], (‎2021), have been chronically mishandled by criminal justice systems. With most sexual crimes never making it to court, due to the fostering of a hostile environment in reporting, policing and judicial processes (e.g., Ministry of Justice [MoJ], 2021), explorative research into what data we have available on such topics is of the utmost importance. This research seeks to investigate the possible differences in the language and themes present in legal judgments of sexual, gender-related offences before and after the #MeToo movement. MeToo, the social justice campaign which promotes awareness of violence against women (Me Too Movement, 2024a), signalled a shift in tolerance for the blatant ignorance and denial of misogyny. Assessing whether measurable changes in the way sexual offences are adjudicated, using data drawn from The National Archives [TNA] (2024a) of England and Wales, can aid in revealing how social movements can potentially enact change within justice systems. 

This study utilises different forms of text analysis, namely exploratory descriptive statistics, K-means clustering and sentiment analysis, to delve into this issue. Findings suggest that language within the court judgments show little distinguishable differences between before and after the #MeToo movement. However, research on this topic would benefit from a replication of the following analysis on a much larger sample size, allowing for more robust conclusions over the true impact of the campaign on structural justice mechanisms. This report is structured with a brief look at the history of the MeToo movement and a review of the current literature, followed by research questions, methodology, the results, a discussion over the findings and finally, a conclusion.

This research uses data from The National Archives, which serves as official repository for an abundance of historical documents from the United Kingdom [UK] government and courts (TNA, 2024b). This includes records of court judgments and decisions from 2003 onwards, made publicly available under the terms of open justice (TNA, 2024a). The archives receive judgements from the Privy Council, UK Supreme Court, Court of Appeal, High Court, Upper Tribunals, Employment Appeal Tribunal and the Family Court but does not routinely receive them from the County, Crown or magistrates’ courts (TNA, 2024a). The courts decide which judgements are published, which aids in the preservation of privacy and safeguarding for applicable cases.


